Okay, I said before that we want to use
this XML schema to generate Java classes.
To do that, we're going to use a very
mature Java feature or library called
XJC. I'm going to toggle over to
Chrome here. Now, there's a Maven plugin
from Mojo for Java generation using the
XJC binding compiler from the JAXB
distribution. So, we need to go ahead and
install this plugin. So I am going to
steal this configuration here and then
I'll show you how to configure it.
So, like getting good developer, I'm
going ahead and doing a cut-and-paste
here. Let's come over to IntelliJ, and now,
I want to come into the POM of the rest
model, so this is where I'm going to
configure this. Because we only need to
set it up in this POM because my mvc-rest-app doesn't need the XJC
compiler. Now, this goes into the build
tag. Inside of
build, we have plugins.
I just do a paste here. Now, the one thing
that they did is they set up a project
version as a variable. I did have to look
this up because I definitely don't have
this memorized but it is 2.3.1 is
the latest release, at the time of
recording, and chances are isn't going to be
there for some time. I didn't look at the
age on it, but the stuff is pretty mature
so if it's from like 2015 or whatever
that release was don't worry. It's a
mature product. They're just so mature
that they're not doing any development
with it right now.
So, I'm going to put in a package
called guru.springframework.
model. Now, that the last thing that we
have to configure, try to see if there's
an example here. Here we are. So, where it
should find it. So, we need to put in the
tag and the configuration tags.
I need sources and source. This does
come from the root directory. So, that was
kind of poorly documented. But here, we
need to do. Are we are going to say
src/main/resources and then also xsd. So that is
the configuration for the plugin. Now, I
do want to show you here on the webpage,
they are showing a lot of times happening
in the compiler. I don't believe that is
necessary. So, I'm going to do a clean
here.
Cleaned it and now I'm going to run the
package goal, so this is important. It
goes off the package goal, which also
gets run with the install phase, as well.
So, we're going to go ahead and run
package.
There's no Java to compile. There's no
tests to run, so this will run pretty
quick. We can see that it's gone through
there. Did a build success. Now, let's
examine the build artifacts, that it did
generate. You can see that we have some
chatter here. We don't need to look into
everything, but we did get the rest-model
jar. But, let's take a closer look at
that generated sources. So, it's actually
generating Java source code for us.
Now, we can see that we have Customer
ListDTOType and CustomersType. So,
let's come in here and take a closer
look at what it was generated. We'll
go in and adjust our XSD. So, we really
don't want to name DTOType. That's kind
of silly. So, let's come over here in
elementname. Yeah, I'm pretty sure that
we can just omit that type.
We'll the name CustomerListDTO. CustomersType but I don't need the
type there either. Get rid of that.
It's double-checking things here and
then we just want to
make this
like that. So now, let's go ahead and do a
clean
and a package.
Now, let's examine the classes that are
generated. See if we like those a little
bit better. Sources. So we have CustomerListDTO,
Customers.
We can see that we have firstname, lastname
customers. So, not really not quite
what we wanted. So, it's pretty close but
we didn't want these properties. We just
want that on. We don't need a list of
customers there. CustomerListDTO.
I'm going to pause this and we have
some errors in that XSD. I'm going to
pause that and rework that real quick.
Okay, I skipped ahead. I want to take a
moment to look at that generated XSD
a little closer and I made a couple
small tweaks to it. Let's see if I can do
this. Would do get compared with same
repository version and the changes that
I've made are highlighted here. We can
see this is the original, and what I had
to do is I got rid of this line here on
the customersType. Not quite sure why
that was getting included. You can see
the renaming are highlighted. Then,
the next important thing here is on the
CustomerListDTO. See how we had this
max occurs unbounded min occurs zero?
That means in XSD that it is a list
a home at and it can have zero or
unlimited many. So, it's saying unbounded
so there can be an infinite number of
entries there. So that is a list.
Obviously, not infinite at some point.
We'd blow up the memory but or run into
some physical limitation of hardware. But
here, you can see the changes here. So, I
now have a customers type so that
gets generated as a customers type. The
CustomerListDTO has one property
customers. Customers. I'd actually like
close this. I want to make one last
change here. Let's make that Customers. So,
that's
singular. This should be.
So now, we have a proper object name of
Customer. It's going to have a property of
customers, which makes sense. So, let's go
ahead and run clean, and I will repackage
this, when that is done. Then, we'll
take a closer look at the generated code.
Target it.
jaxb, guru, springframework, model and let's first
look at that. So, we got two types here -
Customer and CustomerListDTO, which is
exactly what we wanted. Now, we got
CustomerListDTO List of customers. So, that all
looks good. Let's take a closer look at
Customer, and we can see that now we have
the camelcase customerUrl rather than
and the annotation with the underscore,
which is what we did not want. So, this
all looking a lot better. We can see that
the JAXB annotated class has
generated the classes with
and the annotations required for JAXB.
So, this all looks pretty good to me, and
also, the one thing that JAXB does do or
XJC does to create this object Factory.
This is used for JAXB marshalling
and unmarshalling of this class. This
is a handy utility class for us to use.
So, if we were to get further down the
road into marshalling and unmarshalling
XML. So, that's the three course
classes, that were kicked out. Now, let's
just review the POM configuration again.
So, we're using the codehaus-mojo
plugin for JAXB2 Maven plugin 2.3.1
is the latest version. This is
standard execution, so we are going to
execute with the XJC and this is going
to get picked up by default with the
package goal inside a Maven. We did
two configurations. So, we're saying
package telling XJC to create the
classes in the package
guru.springframework.model and we are
giving it the source. The way it's
going to work by default is to process
all XSD files within this directory. So,
if I had more there, it would pick up
those, as well. So, that is the
configuration for the plugin. You
can see that it does to the generation.
It does create the Java sources, which
are then compiled Java classes, and
ultimately, we can see the jar
artifact there. Now, what we're going to
want to do is create a dependency in our
rest-app, and I will do that in the next
video. We will refactor to use this
new data type, that is generated from an
XSD.